# SQL Study
Welcome to SQL Study page! Here I list all resources I used on my SQL journey. Most people are scared of SQL because it seems complicated but it's actually quite intuitive.

There are plenty of courses and other resources for you to check, but here I'll list the material I used to study.

## Road Map
The first issue when we try to learn a new skill is **where do I start?**. So to answer this question, here is the [road map](https://roadmap.sh/sql) I used. This is a great tool to learn, it gives you step by step and free resources to read and learn. There are other roadmaps as well, and I recommend check it out other paths!

[Roadmap PDF file](https://github.com/Ana-Akaishi/sql-projects/blob/main/sql_study/sql_roadmap_roadmapsh.pdf)

### To read
For **beginners** that enjoy reading and advance on their own, try [W3Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/sql/default.asp). It covers the basic SQl funcstions and some quick exercises. It is also a good place to reference in case you forget how a function work and see examples.

Beginner should learn:
- How to `SELECT` columns and `FROM` which table
- Mathematical operations `SUM`, `AVG`, `MIN`, `MAX`
- Filter `WHERE` based on a condition
- Know when to use `LIKE`, `IS`, `NOT`
- How to treat `NULL` values
- Sorting final output using `GROUP BY` and `ORDER BY`
- Combine `GROUP BY`, `ORDER BY` with `ASC` and `DESC`

If you are an **intermediary**, you know how to extract the data you need. Now it's the time for some guided problems and business questions. In this case, I suggest you to read `SQL for Data Analysis, by Cathy Tanimura`. [SQL for Data Analysis](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/sql-for-data/9781492088776/) has public data on github and shows some situations to use SQL.

Intermediary should learn:
- How to work with more than one table, by using `JOIN`
- Subqueries to compare different information

### To watch
A good **beginners** course is [SQL Course, by Programming with Mosh](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7S_tz1z_5bA&t=276s). It shows how to install a MySQL to write your queries, basic functions and how to modify data inside your dataset.

## Practice
The best advice I can give you is find a topic you like. After that try answering some business questions related to it. I know datasets are king od hard to find, but there's always kaggle!

If you want to focus on practicing coding for interview coding questions, I recommend use [HackerRank](https://www.hackerrank.com/). This website has coding interviews tagged by skill level (beginner, intermediary and advanced), difficulty and topic.
- This website offers daily challanges, so you can keep up learning with only one exercise a day.

### Prompt Engineering
I recommend to use Chat-GPT to make you a project with databases recomendation and business questions. 
Here is the prompt I created to help design these questions. You can adjust to your skill level:

 ```
 Chat, give me ideas for a SQL project and a dataset I can use. In each project, show which SQL skills are required and focus on [beginner/intermediary/advanced] SQL skills. Focus on the use of [a set of specific skill you want to practice]. For the datasets, please give me the complete URL, so I can copy and paste it on my browser.
 ```

 After this prompt, Chat-GPT will give you a list of project ideas in different industries (entertainment, health, finance, retail etc). Select the project you like, and then go to back to CHAT-GPT and use my prompt:

 `Chat, create business questions for the following SQL project`

 POST THE PROJECT FROM PREVIOUS PROMPT AND COMPLEMENT WITH THE FOLLOWING PROMPT
 (if you find the meta data file, you can add it here so the questions will fit your data)

```
I'll use [DATABASE DESCRIPTION] and follow this structure to make the business questions:
structure:

1. Macro topic
- question 1
- question 2
- question 3

sql skills:

- skill 1
- skill 2
etc

Example:

1. General Sales Analysis
What is the total revenue generated by the supermarket across all branches?
Which branch generates the highest revenue?
How many transactions were made in each branch?
SQL Skills:

Basic SELECT, SUM, GROUP BY, and ORDER BY.
```